CREATING FRAMES

These are the instructions for creating the frames of the PSM from an Imaris .wrl file (from Lewis Thomson). I would do all this on locally on my computer.

The process to create the animation frames from the nth somite stage to the (n+1)th somite stage is:
  1) Make sure the .wrl file includes a reference axis and origin (for some reason Imaris doesn't export the surfaces at each somite stage with the same origin).
  2) Using Blender
    a) Open the nth somite stage PSM .wrl file in Blender.
    b) Constrain all the different axis object and PSM surface with the origin sphere (so that whererver the origin sphere moves, the axes and PSM surface will follow).
    c) Center the origin at the Blender origin by using the snap tool, then align the axes by creating temporary planes in line with the axes.
    d) Unconstrain the axes and sphere then delete them, so that you just have the PSM aligned.
    e) Export as an STL file, then repeat a)-d) with the (n+1)th somite stage PSM, and the somite for the (n+1) somite stage. Save the (n+1)th stage somite and PSM together as one surface.
    f) Create a new Blender project. Import the nth stage surrface and the n+1th stage surface you have just made. Use the decimate tool to reduce them to about 10% of their original size.
    e) Create keyframes for the nth stage surface at time 0, and keyframes for the n+1th stage surface at time 100.
    f) Use the shrinkwrap function to create an animation between the two surfaces.
    e) Export 10 frames as STL files (i.e one at time 0, one at time 10, ...). Or more if you want more animation frames. Name them n_n+1_0, n_n+1_10 etc. (i.e for the 17 somite stage to the 18th somite stage they are called 17_18_0, 17_18_10 etc)
  3) Each frame needs to be converted into a numpy array that Mayavi can use. To do this, put them all in a folder with STL_to_mayavi_triangles.py, then run that program (making sure you set the right stages at the top of the script).
  4) You should now have 10 (or however many you wanted) numpy files.
 
 
I have included animations for somite stages 17-18 and 18-20 here, although I only ended up using 17-18 in my project.
